Mamaws Coconut Cake (revisited)

1 c sugar
.75 c butter 
.25 c wesson oil 
1 t baking soda 
2 .5 t baking powder
1 t van 

Cream butter, soda, powder and sugar on medium-high for 5 min, scraping the bowl 2 or 3 times. It should be almost white and at least doubled in volume. Mix in vanilla. With mixer on medium, stream in oil very slowly, adding about a teaspoon at a time, this should take another 3-5 min. Once you've added all the oil and its incorporated scrape the bowl well, mix on low until just combined.  

3 yolks
2 eggwhites 

With mixer on medium-low, add yolks one at a time, mixing until just combined. Scrape the bowl. Add one eggwhite and mix on medium speed until combined. Stop mixer, scrape the bowl, add last eggwhite and whip on medium for 2-3 min. 

1 c buttermilk
1 .75 cake flour, sifted

If using ap and cornstarch, mix together and then sift.  Add in half of the flour, mixing on lowest speed until you see ribbons of flour, but is mostly incorporated. Scrape, and with mixer on low, very gradually pour in buttermilk (take your time, go slowly!) Add in last half of flour and mix on low speed for 1-2 min.

Bake in 2 8 cake pans at 325 for about 25 min, or until done. I bake them a few hours or the night before and wrap them in saran so they can chill in the fridge to firm up. Take out right before assembling cake!

For the frosting: 

1 c white karo 
3 T water 
.5 c sugar 

Combine karo, water and sugar in saucepan over medium heat. Make sure all sugar is combined with the water and karo, once together stop stirring. Let mixture cook into syrup, remove at soft ball stage or to 245. 

3 eggwhites 
1 T sugar

Whip eggwhites with sugar until stiff peak (when you pull the whisk out of the meringue it should stand up without falling back into the mixture). If whipped before syrup is ready, keep on low until you add syrup. 
Once syrup reaches 245, remove from heat, set mixer on high and stream in syrup. I add a tiny drop a few times to temper the mix. Then pour .5 t in and let fluff up. Once it starts to fluff up you can stream in the rest of the syrup. Let whip on high until bowl is not warm to the touch. 


