Ricotta Amarena Cherry Tart with Pistachio Crust

Pistachio Tart Shell:

1 large egg yolk - at room temperature
2 tablespoons cream
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup unsalted butter - cold and cut into .25" cubes
1 .25 cups all purpose flour
.25 cup powdered sugar - sifted
.33 cup pistachios
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
.25 teaspoons salt
Ricotta Filling
1 cup ricotta cheese
.67 cup Greek yogurt
.33 cup honey
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extact
1 lemon - finely zested
30 Amarena Cherries & syrup

For the tart shell
Mix together the cream, egg yolk and vanilla in a small bowl, set aside.

Combine .33 cup of pistachios with .25 cup of flour in a food processor, pulse until finely ground. *The flour will absorb the oils from the nuts and keep them from turning to a paste in the food processor.
Add the remaining flour, powdered sugar, salt and black pepper. Pulse until fully combined.
Add the cold butter cubes and pulse until the butter chunks are about the size of dimes. You want a rough texture with some floury butter chunks still visible as opposed to a smooth dough.
While pulsing the dough, slowly add the liquid mixture just until the dough starts to come together into a ball. Remove from the food processor and combine the dough into a flattened and smooth oblong disk. Cover in plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 1 hour.

On a lightly floured surface, roll the dough out in an oblong shape if using a rectangular tart pan or a round shape if using a round tart pan, until it is about .25" thick.
Carefully ease the dough into tart pan. If it cracks or breaks during the transfer process, use your fingers to seal the cracks. 
Par bake the crust. 

Ricotta Filling
In the bowl of a stand mixer, mix the ricotta, Greek yogurt, vanilla, honey and lemon zest together until smooth. 

Chill in the fridge for at least a couple of hours to allow the filling to set. Once the filling is set and doesn't jiggle anymore, slice into 8-10 wedges. Top each wedge with a few amarena cherries and a heavy drizzle of the amarena cherry syrup. Serve immediately. 


